Flow tutorial 2021 (#680)
vaadin/docs: articles/flow/tutorials/_heroku-steps.adoc

== Preparing the Application for Production

> It's important to build a separate production-optimized version of the application before deploying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to build a separate, production-optimized version of the application before deploying it.
```

In development mode, Vaadin has a live-reload widget, debug logging, and uses a quick, but unoptimized, frontend build that includes source maps for easy debugging.
Unoptimized frontend bundles can contain several megabytes of JavaScript.

> The `pom.xml` build includes a `production` profile configuration that prepares an optimized build that's ready for production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `pom.xml` build includes a `production` profile configuration that prepares an optimized build which is ready for production.
```

=== Using a PostgreSQL Database in Production

> During development, the application has used an in-memory H2 database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During development, the application uses an in-memory H2 database.
```

> It is convenient and works well for a single user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is convenient and works well for a single user.
```

> In production, you want to use something more robust and persistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production, it is better to use something more robust and persistent.
```

> Heroku's free tier supports PostgreSQL, so can configure your application to use that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heroku's free tier supports PostgreSQL, so you can configure your application to use that.
```

First, add the PostgreSQL dependency in the production profile of `pom.xml`:

.`pom.xml`
[source,xml,highlight=4-9]
----
<profile>
 <id>production</id>
 <!-- Omitted -->
 <dependencies>
   <dependency>
     <groupId>org.postgresql</groupId>
     <artifactId>postgresql</artifactId>
   </dependency>
 </dependencies>
</profile>
----

Next, configure how JPA should handle schema generation.
Add the following two properties to the end of `application.properties`.

.`src/main/java/resources/application.properties`
[source]
----
spring.jpa.generate-ddl=true
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=create-drop
----

.Avoid data loss
[WARNING]
====
This setup recreates the database on every deployment. If you are working with real data, you should use `ddl-auto=none` and instead use a database migration tool like https://www.liquibase.org/[Liquibase] or https://flywaydb.org/[Flyway] so you can evolve the database schema without losing data.
====

=== Building a Production-Optimized JAR

Build the application with the `production` profile:

[source,bash]
----
mvn clean package -Pproduction
----

This builds a production-optimized JAR file in the `target` folder.

> == Creating a Heroku Account and Installing Heroku CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating a Heroku Account and Installing the Heroku CLI
```
